# Minutes - Board Meeting
### Presence: Christophe, Oana, Hannes (sent his ideas)

* When: 1st June 2015, 8:30PM UTC+2
* Where: [Slack](https://rubyburgers.slack.com/messages/association/)

## Topics

* Open Board Meeting
* Bank Account
* Membership Fees
* Receipt
* Website and Domain Name
* Support Current Events
* Insurance
* Job Board

## Open Board Meeting

Should we let other people attend the board meeting, and speak (even if they do
not have right of vote)?

> We vote for having them open, especially if it's not about sensitive topics
> (people). We can have an open ongoing channel on Slack.


## Bank Account

For the moment, we can use the Rais Girls bank account. It's a joint personal
account owned by Christophe, Yannick, and Martin. Possible options are: classic
bank (ING) but paying, free online bank account at Keytrade, others?

>* We cannot transfer the Rails Girls account because it is a personal joint
>  account
>* The good news is that it is easy to close
>* Because most of classic banks does not offer a free account for NGOs, we
>  looked for alternatives: Keytrade, KBC
>* Joren & Christophe will look closer into this after Joren's holidays

## Membership Fees

We have to decide the membership fee for 2015. It couldn't be more than 100€
according the statute. What about 25€? For your information, people attending
RubyCamp BE 2015 should get a membership. Are you ok?

>* Oana: what will we give the members for these 25 euro?
>* Christophe: we should keep it low at first, it's more for people to show 
>  support for what we want to do (it could cover stuff such as insurance).
>* Hannes: suggested to offer discounts even to events such as ArrrrCamp
>
>* We will probably not need to pay tax for the membership fee (events are
>  exempted from VAT & MAL tax). Tax is related to the turnover over a year
>* we don't think we will have a good one. Christophe will share a template for
>  the receipt.
>
>* Topic stays open for more thoughts and brainstorming,
>* Let's make a budget for x events and then try
>* Let's make more concrete plan of the usage of the money + be transparent with
>  them

## Receipt

We should keep track of the issued receipts (they are not invoices per se), for
the different fees. Where to store them? (Do not forget private information)

>* Have them on a Drive folder or Dropbox for now

## Website and Domain Name

Who can setup a quick and simple website (GitHub Page?) to list the different
info, projectts, events, activities, etc? What about getting rubybelgium.be?
Where to register?

>* Discussion is on going for the domain - to be postponed for now
>* For website, we can start with a GitHub page
>* Probably we can ask the current owner of rubybelgium.be if he really needs
   that domain :) we can make better use of it ;)

## Support Current Activities

The current activies that are organized are Rails Girls Brussels, Ruby Burgers,
and BRUG:

* ok to support the meetup.com annual fee for the groups Ruby Burgers and BRUG?

> Sounds like fair thing to do.
>  
>* Meetup Basic plan = 3 dollars / month (up to 50 members)
>* Meetup Unlimited plan = 5 dollars / month (unlimited number members)
>
>* Christophe payed 30 dollars/6 months => we will get to around 60 dollars/year +
>  another 60 dollars/year for Ruby burgers =>(2 x unlimited plans = 240
>  dollars)
>
> We can try to combine the two groups maybe? So that way we avoid creating a
> new group for each event. After all, the audience is probably more or less the
> same.
>
>* To investigate how we can merge the groups (Ruby Belgium & Ruby Burgers)

* ok to manage sponsoring and expenses for Rails Girls Brussels?

> yes, definitely

* should we find sponsor dedicated to RailsGirls or more generally for
  RubyBelgium (and mentioning Rails Girls)?
  
>* it is hard to predict...
>* we will probably figure it out by doing it
>* companies prefere to sponsor events, rather than an association
>* continue what we do with Rails Girls & then we can mention they can upgrade
>* or if there are money after that, mention that we will use the money for the
>  association or another RG
>* have a sponsor page for every event - it is fair to mention them

## Insurance

As an association we are liable of our members (affiliate and full). Option is
to take a simple insurance at Ethias to cover events and activities.

>* we are liable of our members and we need to take an insurance for that
>* the minimum is to cover the volunteers safety (volunteer = anybody who helps 
>  making an event happen)
>* ask different insurance companies for quotations
>* ex: a 50 persons event = 50 euro (depends on the kind of event) - but we need
>  to gather more info to make a decision

## Job Board

Developers are looking for jobs. Companies are looking for developers. We could
be a good information platform. Christophe tried jobboardmaker.com made by
Thibaud Assus: it costs 20% + Stripe fee. He suggested to reduce it to 15% or a
flat fee of 30€. It seems to be a nice solution, but a simple GitHub pages
website should also do the job for free.

>* +2 to Hannes' suggestion to build something to share
>* ideally we would have a low rate of something like 100 euro and then see how
>  it works (we should make it attractive for companies)
>* we should set a repo where we can post job offers & companies send us offers
