# Extraordinary meeting at RubyCamp

An extraodinary meeting has been organized during the RubyCamp 2015. The goal was to introduce the association to
the new members and discuss it. Below are the minutes of that meeting.

## Minutes

### Introduction

* What's the goal? Promoting and supporting Ruby and in particular the Belgian Rubyists.
* Who are the board members? Christophe, Hannes, Joren, Oana, Yannick
* What are we doing for now?
  * organizing Rails Girls Brussels, RubyBurgers, BRUG, RubyCamp
  * collecting companies doing Ruby
  * promotting jobs and candidates
* Are we supporting Arrrrcamp? Yes, if we have the money. There is a dedicated association for Arrrrcamp.
  Ruby Belgium is too young to be able to support the financial risk and the associaiton, Joly Roger, for Arrrrcamp
  existed before.
* What do we do with the membership fees? This year, it's mainly about covering operational costs (domain, meetup.com,
  BRUG drinks, publication of the statute, etc.)
* What is the goal for 2015? Understand better our events (budget, how to organize it), promote the association
  and get members, investigate how we can support the community (e.g. visibility of the jobs)
  
### What members can do?

* replace Oana to organize Rails Grils Brussels
* organize a local chapter of BRUG
* become a member and pay the fee (send an email to info@rubybelgium.be)
* subscribe to our chat rooms http://rubyburgers.herokuapp.com/
* promote it around you
* build the website
* attend and participate the board meeting
* ask the board members what you can do
* fill the ruby shops list https://github.com/brug-be/rubyshops

### Others

* What about renaming BRUG or RubyBurgers? There are know for what they are, let's say it's an activity by
  Ruby Belgium
* Yuri:
  * Ruby is a modern technology to companies
  * they do not know it and what we can do with it
  * let's promote by the companies that technology
* Boris, Tomasz:
  * find place where you can promote it (fair, enterprise hackathon)
  * help companies to organize Ruby hackathon
* Olivier: Support RGSOC
* Tomasz: Be in touch with other tech communities/associations
* Olivier: Be in contact with initiatives introducing technologies
* Edward: ppl inside the community understand that there is not enough visibility
* Justine:
  * cooperation with other associaiton, for instance coder dojo
  * what about organizing something with children and coder dojo
  * I'm a mentor there
* Edward: in Australia, no reelection for the same role after 1y
* All: we agree on the goal of the association
