24# Meeting notes

## Bank Account

Joren will share an update about the opening of the bank account

* Paperwork is ready, Joren needs to send it to the bank and follow up on that. We will open an acount at Keytrade, as they provide one for free for associations.  
* Just need to check if we need the signature of all board members.

## Accounting

| Object               | Amount   |
|----------------------|----------|
| RubyCamp 2015        | €285.94  |
| Members              | €650.00  |
| Association Creation | -€131.16 |
| Meetup BRUG          | -€28.00  |
| Meetup RubyBurger    | -€28.00  |
| RubyCamp Winter 2016 | -€300.00 |
| Total                | €448.78  |

Bank Account: 1824.99€  
Rails Girls Money: 1376.21€

* currently possitive
* how are we going to handle project budget?
* keep RG budget separate for now, it should be enough for one more event: "Generally, we can manage with 1000 eur to have everything (t-shirts included), without t-shirts, we can make it with even 500"
* for the future, that benefits or loss for a project are for the association. and the assocation can then support the events that need it
	* **oana.sipos**: Largely, sounds like a good idea If I can have an amendment that would be to try to have each project self-sustainable (if possible). But probably we just need to run the events for a year and then see what is sustainable, what not, where to adjust

## Code of Conduct

Christophe suggets to adopt a [code of conduct](https://github.com/brug-be/code_of_conduct) for the events we are running. It is based on the one we got for Arrrrcamp.

* **toch**: so, let me give you some context
It's a bylaw text that gives us a guideline when we organize an event
rather than letting each organizer handle that, I ​*suggest*​ to adopt one
It's based on the arrrrcamp coc  
Again, it's a bylaw, it frames some cases that need to be handle by the association and how the association would react in those cases ... at first is to give guideline to organizer in case of. As any laws, the association have to "judge" the case if something happen. I don't see it as a black and white decision.  
I'd like first to hear @hannes,  @joren and @oana.sipos  on this, if they have something to say. then I'll let the other participants to react.
	* **oana.sipos** I guess it's definitely much easier to have just one for all  
	* **joren** I don’t mind having this guideline, if it helps 1 person to join an event it’s already a win an indeed, we should just have one for all it makes it clear it is all related to this association
	* **apneadiving**: it doesnt hurt, it can help, I cannot but approve
	* **tiago**:  I'm all for it.
	*  **boris**: What are the conditions for modifying it? PR? => Yes please
* all board members are for adopting the current coc.
* I (**toch**) think it is really important to remember that in any cases, in case of problem with a member that should be handled as detailed in the statute
expulsion has to be voted during General Assembly for instance
so that coc is really there to give guidelines to organizers and participants as any bylaws would do

## RubyCamp Winter 2016

Thomas and Tomasz are organizing a RubyCamp Winter 2016.

* Thanks a lot @nysthee and @tomaszras for taking over that. That's awesome
* It's during the weekend 12-14 Feb
* Again in Tilff
* registration will open soon

## Rails Girls (next session, new organizer)

Oana has found a new organizer, and a new edition will be organized soon.

* Silvana is the new organizer of RG, Oana will continue on developing the RG Brussels guide + coaching
* Silvana is working on a doodle to send around with the following dates:  12-14 Feb, 19-21 Feb, 26-28 Feb
* Oana is preparing a document on all the thngs that needs to be done for a RG
* For now nothing is really needed from the association.
* Thank you Oana for having rebooted the RG and lead it during 2 years!!

## BRUG (new Brussel organizer, new Chapter)

* Christophe [wrote down what to do to organize a BRUG](https://github.com/brug-be/rubybelgium-documents/blob/master/events/howto_organize_a_brug.md).
* Christophe has passed the relay of the Brussels Chapter to Tiago
* Joren and Thomas have started a Ghent Chapter

* @tiago: has taking over the Brussels chapter.
* @joren: has started a Ghent Chapter.

* tiago I'm thinking of systematically refer to the Brussels BRUG, now that we have 2 cities.
* joren Oh, we are thinking of contacting some schools in February to see if we can do an introduction to Rails for students

* maybe find sponsor for Brussels BRUG drinks and ask betacoworks f they can store it somehwere.
* and look for other options then pizza if possible.
* make an inventory of the leftover of rubycamp

* Ghent and Brussels should think about these questions:
	1. inventory of leftovers
	2. ask if we can store drinks by the venue
	3. can we cover it?
	4. local sponsor?
	5. another option for the food?(edited)

## Ruby fosdem devroom

* **toch**: I organize it again with Tyler (jenkins, jruby contributor)
http://fosdem.rubybelgium.be
	* The CFP ends on the 1st Dec.
	* There are some money left from the sponsoring of last year, Ruby Berlin will transfer it to us.
	* We'll need some help during the event (to keep a door, to record the talks, etc.). If you are interested to help, please contact me at toch@rubybelgium.be


## Registered Members (status, promotion)

* We have 26 members.
* How can we get more?

* 	**nathandewitte** what are “full” members?
	* **toch** full members = ppl that have paid their membership fee
* **tiago** What's the incentive for someone to pay?
	*  **boris** For 1: support the association so that it can organize new events
	*  **apneadiving** prices of major events could be different for members. And only members could touch @toch

We need to 

* find clear incentives for members
* possible incentives: discount to paying events such as rubycamp, free food and drinks at the BRUG
* others?

## Logo (potential designer, maybe already some suggestions)

* **Boris**: suggested this: https://files.slack.com/files-pri/T02KPU3QY-F0F4T8B5E/rubybe.jpg
* **Nathan** also wants to work on a logo: a few examples of a logo based on the atomium: https://files.slack.com/files-pri/T02KPU3QY-F0F71LG1L/ruby_belgium_logo_ideas.gif
	* feedback could be part of a PR
	* **boris** For constructive feedback I suggest people to speak with these criterias http://justcreative.com/2009/07/27/what-makes-a-good-logo/

## Insurances

Christophe didn't have the time to get more info on that topic.

## Job Board (quick update)

* ask companies to consider some success fee, when they close the deal
	* so we need a simple contract
	* and track success
	* first maybe based on trust
	* we can try this and see how it works out
	
* Summary: 
	* when ppl want to share a job opening
	* we say ok: free to share on channel, twitter, and github, if success you pay a small fee, please sign here
	* if you don't pay on success, we won't let you anymore to share


## Merge meetups (who does it, brug, rb, rg)

We discuss it, we agree, who can do it?

* We rebrand the BRUG to Ruby Belgium => Joren.
* We close the rubyburgers meetup with a notice that new events will be created in the Ruby Belgium meetup => Yannick.

## Monthly meeting

Christophe would like to have a montly board meeting. That will keep us more on the ball, but it will be also a good way to involve more ppl.

*  Hannes' point on that: " I think we need to make these meetings async, and if we need specific sync meetings keep those board-only and super fast if only us can make a decision on something… move everything else into issues or whatever
1h30min imo is way too much, we just sit around waiting for people to finish typing
too much discussion that could be done in issues or (dare I say it) even email or so"
	* **yannick** I vote for an issue based flow here, it will be 	simpler and faster than a monthly meeting
	and also less time consuming
	Or at least timebox meetings
	* **toch** What about do it everymonth with issues ?
	and give one week to finish it
	something like that
	* **yannick** I guess we can always open issues
	and give a timeframe for resolution there
