# Board meeting 25 november

Present: Christophe, Tiago, Silvana, Joren, Boris

## Status update:

Bank administration => Still figure out which document is the right one
Expenses => Small expense can go through Joren, the rest needs board decision

### Git merge

Ok for partnership to get more reach
Silvana is the person of contact
Check if they could sponsor anything

### Memberships

Make sure we use the existing registry
Less memberships than last year but some from the last event

### Code together

Sponsoring needs planning. Tiago will do the follow up

### Fosdem

Great mentions in ruby weekly
Found some help to organise it, submitted proposal
Collecting the CFP for now
Need to found some sponsoring (maybe insourcing the arrrcamp list)
Toch will keep an eye on this


## Topics

### Goals 2017

Toch: Self sustainable org. Disapointed by the community, don’t know why. Wants to leave by the next general assembly
Silvana: Lots of idea, feels the need to step up
Tiago: Wants more members, more engagement
Joren: Same as Tiago, with more retention. Need to know our people better
Boris: Make ruby belgium great again by making it more focused on what work and being more professional

### Event organisation
- We need organise events together as a team, not as individuals. Sharing responsabilities. Still need a leader per project but everyone needs to be involved.
- Improve the operational "how to to"s
- Focus should be on RailsGirls on 2017 and follow up events like "Code together"

### Job board
- Convert website to rails app and integrate joboard

### Membership
- Visible list of member on the website as perk of the org membership  

### Finance report

3369€ balance
Some job board and some Memberships

### Arrrcamp

More news coming after march 2017

### Code together

Good feedback for the location and the food option
Tiago will make a google feedback form to send via mailchimp

### Beginner meetup

No beginner meetup
Instead, start a beginner publishing strategy.
Starting with December newsletter: top 10 links for beginner
=> create google docs to collect
=> mailchimp to send archive
=> repost everywhere
Joren is responsible to collect the links
