# Ordinary General Assembly of RubyBelgium

## Agenda

https://github.com/joren/rubybelgium-documents/blob/board/20160329-agenda.md  

**Present**: anthony `F`, boris `F`, cecile `F`, joren `F`, lien `F`, marius `F`, norydev `F`, oana `F`, olivier `F`, silvana `F`, simon `F`, stan `F`, tiago `F`, toch `F`, and tomasras `F`
**Excused**: Edward `F`, Hannes `F`, Kevin `F`, Thomas Gautier `F`, and Yannick `F`
**Late**: apneadiving `F`, bram `A`, mlainez `F`, nathan `A`, and yuri `F`

`F` = Full Member
`A` = Associate Member

**Moderator**: Toch
**Secretary**: Simon
**Proxies**: Edward (to Toch), Hannes (to Toch), Kevin (to Stan), Thomas Gautier (to Brois), and Yannick (to Toch)

## Welcome

The moderator welcomes and thanks everyone present for the help and participation over the previous year. He is happy with the dynamics created and explains the rules to speak to keep this online assembly as organized as possible.

## Date & place

29 march 2016 at 20h30
RubyBurgers Slack, #association channel (online)

## Presence, quorum, vote & proxy

The moderator explains how we are expected to vote. Aprroval voting for the memberhip fee and budget will be done via emoji in the #association Slack channel and will not be anonymous. The moderator set up an anonymous survey for the board election. Every full member can cast five votes for five different board candidates. The individual link for this survey will be sent right before the board voting starts. Members with proxy rights will get another mail with a seperate link.

The moderator asks what the attendees think of this modus operandus, it's quickly approved by 12 thumbs up emoji votes.

## Agenda & flow

See above, the rules where explained earlier. The moderator asks if there are any question about the association articles.

Boris chimes in and asks if there is a maximum on the proxy votes one can have. The moderator replies one can have a maximum of 3 proxy votes. Boris asks if that’s a standard in ASBL/VZWs on which the moderator replies it's a way but is does not always have to be the case.

Simon asks about the quorum: fifteen members online with five proxies, is that enough for the quorum? The moderator replies the quorum is reached for the board election.

## Activities report

The moderator points to the agenda distributed earlier and asks if there are any questions regarding the organized activities. Tiago asks if we counted the activities in 2015 in the PDF as well. The moderator acnowledges.

Joren, Cecile & Simon thank Toch and the board for their work in 2015.

## Balance sheet 2015 and ongoing 2015

The moderator explains the full accounting balance sheet is available on request and that he would like to find a way to be more open about it.

Norydev has a question concerning the €2400 on the RailsGirls budget. If the moderator can share some details, are these different sponosors or only one? The moderator provides a break up of the sponsorships: GitLab €700, Belighted €700, PullReview €300 and Vasco €700.

Norydev has another question about the RailsGirls event 2016 numbers. He asks if he is right that these are numbers from the past, not projections for the rest of 2016. The moderator acknowledges, the invoice date and payment date are taken into account for these numbers.

Simon asks if it wouldn't be possible to publish the balance sheet publicly on the website. The moderator says there is no real reason to not do it and that it's up for discussion. Simon replies he will bring the topic up in another setting.

Boris wonders why the last RailsGirls didn't receive as much sponosoring as previous editions. Silvana replies there wasn't really a need for and that they didn't push for extra sponsors.

Tiago asks if the RailsGirls and RubyBelgium accounts are still seperated and if it would be a good idea to merge both accounts. The moderator replies that this has been discussed and the goal is to merge both accounts. This will be up to the next board. The moderator mentions the money is not that important, it's more how to support the different activities. Oana chimes in, she explains she would prefer to keep them seperate and try to push for more events. The RailsGirls sponsoring could be used to increase the number of women in tech. Belgium is one of the worst students in Europe when it comes to women in tech. Boris wants to take the discussion deeper but is asked to take it outside of the assembly.

## Board 2016 and Project 2016

There are five seats to fill, candidatures have been sent in previously and each candidate's pitch is available in the agenda. Each candidate goes individually and the members can ask questions.

### Christophe

Questions 1:

Boris: "How big do you see this association become? Do you see RubyBelgium to have more of an impact on the Belgian ICT sector in the future?"
Toch: "Everything starts small, so I'd like to do it step by step. I want a good coherent community first with clear goals. Going for the big picture directly is a mistake IMHO. I see Rubyist as people that are more than just a language, it's just a tool. we all do one or more languages/technologies. It would make sense to go beyond the language, and I'd love that. However, I think there is a  thing that will be a boundary: the spirit. We won't be for all, just for a part of it, people that will find a link with the association spirit. It will depend on the members and what they what, I'm just another active voice.

Question 2:

Simon: "What do you see/forsee as the biggest hurdle for the association in 2016?"
Toch: "Working without me. I have too many things in hands. That’s not sane for the association and we need to fix that."

### Joren

> Only that I still stand for my candidacy, but I was really happy to see more people wanting to join the board.

Question 1:

Oana: "Are you both running for the same positions?"
Moderator: "You don’t run for a role but for the board in general, after which the boards decides. But I am running for president again."
Joren: "No preference."

Question 2:

Boris: "Do you have any plan to bring ArrrrCamp and RubyBelgium closer toghether?"
Joren: "ArrrrCamp is not only something I have build, but personally I wouldn’t mind. I’ve seen what RubyBelgium is able to organize. and I think ArrrrCamp can definitely profit from that talent."

### Simon

> My plea is in the agenda so quick summary: would like to make the financial side more transparant, fully public even. If the community agrees. Problem is I am yet another white Belgian male and think we *need* to diversify. I would gladly give my seat to any underrepresented group if am chosen.

No questions.

### Tiago

> As I said before, my goal is to have a thriving association. I think whatever the result of the vote, it's already in good hands.

Question 1:

Oana: "What is the first thing you will work on (because it needs improvement) if you get elected?"
Tiago: "For what I already do (BRUG), I want to develop it with some ideas I have. For what I don't already do, I'd like to improve the 'marketing' side of the association. i.e. having a better visibility out there. Schools, for example.

### Anthony

> I think my candidature was a lot about who I am as a person. To focus on what I intend to help the association with, whether I am elected or not, is to bundle the talent RubyBelgium has to offer in ways of projects.

Question 1:

Oana: "Same as for Tiago, what is the first thing you would like to work on?"
Anthony: "I would listen to each individual and find a common thrive to pursue as a team. Spreading knowledge, for example."

### Boris

> Most people here know me too well already. I dont have anything to add to my application.

Question 1:

Simon: "What is the one thing you would like to change in the current setting?"
Boris: "Nothing much for now. Just more of it (especially public relations)."

### Lien

> I think I would like RubyBelgium to create even more activities. Sunday coding sessions with rails girls who want to move on after the first session, meetups with tech talks / lightning talks, coaching sessions. I think doing coaching sessions and having follow up sessions with the rails girls will lead to more ruby devs in Belgium. And yes there is Le Wagon now, but it still is for privileged people who can take 9 weeks off and pay 4500 euros for a bootcamp. So in a nutshell make sure we keep adding / improving the devs in our ruby community. If I don’t get elected I will keep doing what I’m already doing, helping to find speakers for the meetups, be a coach for railsgirls and I’ll help out where the association needs extra help

Question 1:

Oana: "So first thing you would work on would be... Sunday coaching sessions?"
Lien: "Yes. I would like to see that go further than where we are right now. But would love to discuss that with other people first of course."
Olivier: "Being a boy, I like the idea of coaching sessions on Sundays as well."
Lien: "I think I would like RubyBelgium to create even more activities. Sunday coding sessions with rails girls who want to move on after the first session, meetups with tech talks / lightning talks, coaching sessions. so besides coding sessions with rails girls, i do also want to add coaching sessions (don’t care whatever you are)."

### Silvana

> I’m a newbie to the organization, so thank you for the opportunity to organize RG, and for the welcoming community. I'm running because i'm trying to practice what we preach-getting more women and diversity in the tech scene in BXL/BE (and 'cause @toch suggested it).

Question 1:

Oana: "Same as for all the others."
Silvana: "See what the previous board left off and have continuity. Discuss issues and be more proactive. I feel we all have the same concerns."

Question 2:

Simon: "Any ideas on how we can other groups involved. Any other ideas outside of RailsGirls?"
Silvana: "Discuss issues and be more proactive. I feel we all have the same concerns. As Toch said start small, do well. And grow from there."

Question 3:

Olivier asks if there isn’t a way way to reach out to the React group with React-Rails. Silvana likes the idea but proposes to continue the question out of the channel.

### Thomas

Thomas is excused. Thomas has organized the RubyCamp in February and started a local BRUG chapter in Ghent. He won't be able to answer any questions so well have to rely on his application in the agenda.

### Education

Marc has a question for all the candidates: "I've read education related suggestions such as more coaching events, reaching out to schools etc... My question for you all is, besides one-shot events, do you have any suggestions on how this community could really help and educate newcomers in their career path? In other words create a more followed process to bring up the overall quality of Belgian Ruby devs. Should it be the role of this organisation?"

Boris: "I have not talked about this but i'd like to learn from the coder dojo people to see what we could do together."

Simon: "I was thinking of creating a low traffic newsletter which participants could subscribe to. Pointing to the Slack #general channel where we do help out with more technical questions. Could also a way to keep in touch with those not online as often. We could add a calendar with upcoming events?"

Lien: "The one shot event is exactly what I want to move away from and have recurring events / a platform where they can keep learning. Small flashcards / little exercises / seeing each other once a month / ..."

Joren: "I think things like the jobboard could be a good start. I also got some personal questions about hiring somebody who did Le Wagon and wanted to know if that was a good way to find a job in tech. I think we could help here to inform people on how to be a newbie in our sector."

Silvana: "I think this is a question we all need to work on. To build sustainability is not a one man job."

Tiago: "One of my goals is to get more people to know the association. Not with one-shots, but with repeated actions. Building the community will bring more dev quality as a side effect. I don't plan to build a 2nd Le Wagon, if that was the question."

Toch: "I see several possibilities: 1/ building bridge with the usual education suspects (uni, school, training, bootcamp) in order to open a field of possibilities, but also a pov on real world. 2/ a mentoring program would be a good thing, it's something we really need and that companies don't necessary provide unfortunately, something like a regular meeting every two weeks. 3/ Gathering resources for passive learning, good starting point."

Anthony: "My goal is to spread awareness of what programming can do and help bring forward RubyBelgium’s contribution."

## Election of the board 2016

## Dissolution of the board 2016

## Budget 2016

Tiago asks if there are any plans from the current board, regarding spending of the budget. The moderator replies the publication of the new board will have to be payed for but there are not other open commitments.

Simon throws up an idea, what about a code jam for refugees?

## Approval of the Membership Fee 2016

The moderator asks the participants to approve the membership fee of €25 for the next year. He repeats the participants can agree by voting with a tumbs up, disagree with a thumbs down and everything else will be counted as an abstention.

The membership fee is aproved with 14 thumbs up.

## Approval of the Budget 2016

Same modus operandus for the budget. The 2016 budeget is approved with another 14 thumbs up.

## Results of the Board Election

| Candidate | Votes |
| --------- | ----- |
| Lien      | 20    |
| Christophe| 19    |
| Silvana   | 17    |
| Boris     | 16    |
| Joren     | 13    |
| Tiago     | 10    |
| Simon     | 9     |
| Anthony   | 0     |
| Thomas    | 0     |

The new board has been elected: Lien, Christophe, Silvana, Joren & Boris!

## Closing

The first ordinary general assembly of RubyBelgium is closed at 22h50. A total of 331 emoji where used during the assembly