# Ordinary General Assembly of Ruby BelgiumLinkebeek, 14 Mar 2016  Christophe Philemotte, President  Approved by the Board on the 14th March 2016 (Yannick Schutz, Oana Sipos, Hannes Fostie, Christophe Philemotte, Joren de Groof)  ## Agenda* Introduction	* welcome	* date & place	* presence, quorum, proxy, and vote	* agenda & flow* Activities report 2015* Balance sheet 2015 and ongoing 2016* Approval Balance sheet 2015* Board 2016 and Projects 2016* Budget 2016* Approval of Membership Fee 2016* Approval Budget 2016* Closing## Introduction### WelcomeWe have created the association in march 2015, we did it for several reasons:* providing a better structure to support the different events we were organizing(BRUG, Ruby Burgers, Rails Girls, etc.)* protecting the volunteers and members from any liability issues (as a de factoorganization we were all liable)* building the means to support other projects/events* being more visible and gathering more peopleBasically, the organizers of the Ruby events gathered and founded the association: Yannick (Ruby Burgers), Oana (Rails Girls), Joren and Hannes (Arrrrcamp, and before ArrrrUG and BRUG), and I (BRUG).It has been a wonderful year: the association counts now 30 full members and about 150 associate members. When writing the report of activities, I realized how much we did together. I'm very happy to have been part of it.
As reminder you can find the articles of [the association on Github](https://github.com/brug-be/articles_of_association) 
### Date & PlaceI call the general assembly to gather in o ur discussion channel on Tuesday the 29th March 2016.### Presence, Quorum, Proxy, and VoteThe presence will be taken at the opening of the meeting.In order to have valid election, we need a quorum of simple majority. There is no other special quorum to meet.If you can't attend the general assembly, you can give proxy to another full member. A full member cannot proxy more than 3 other full members. Please inform by email the board and the selected full member to whom you give proxy.We'll use a service that allows to vote anonymously. Further instructions will be sent before the general assembly.### Agenda & FlowIn the following, you'll find the full agenda of the General Assembly. During the meeting, we'll go through the whole, point by point, and address questions, comments, and other remarks. In order to have an efficient meeting, the agenda will be considered read by every present participants.The president will lead and moderate the assembly.The minutes will be taken by the secretary or another member.I wish you good reading and see you all at the General Assembly.## Activities Report 2015During the year 2015, we had a lot of events:* 6 Ruby Burgers in Brussels, in total it gathered 54 persons (Ruby Nord organized 3in Lille)* 13 BRUG in Brussels (168 persons), 3 BRUG in Ghent (19 persons)* 2 Rails Girls (40 + ? persons)* 2 Ruby Camps (36 persons)* Ruby Fosdem (6 speakers, audience varying from 30 to 60 attendants)* Slack with now +100 members* JobBoard    
### Ruby BurgersDue to a lot of travels, I did organize less Ruby Burgers (only 3 until the Summer). It was a pity, because it is a great informal event allowing ppl to know each other better. I see it as a very good way to build the community. People wanted more. As I did for the BRUG, I looked for another organizer that could take over me and go back to a pace of one a month. As Boris was a regular participant, I asked him and he accepted.Boris:  > Dernier trimestre 2015 nous avons relancé l'organisation des rubyburgers apres une période creuse. Toujours favorisant la diversité des endroits comme métaphore de la communauté, nous nous tenons maintenant a une organisations mensuelle afin de créer une habitude et de renforcer la cohésion de la communauté.### BRUGBRUG was still an important event for me, and I continue to organize one a month. Thanks to some experiment in 2014, the event became the following:* a coding session, and sometimes talks* always the same place every month to create habitIt helps to build a core of participants. However, it was time to find another organizer so I can spend more time on other aspects of the association. As Tiago was a regular participant and always keen to help, I asked him and he accepted.Tiago:> Monthly routine is good. Makes people expect the event, and block the date more easily.Some new members, but no big growth. Last one was the exception. Talks seem to attract more people. Coding sessions only are great, but probably have the "nerd" image that can deter more casual visitors.Do we want to expand, or stay small? Should we advertise more? What's the max capacity of ICAB then?Maybe we can poll the Meetup members, or the RailsGirls participants, to look for more attractive formulas.Overall, a very good event, both for me personally, and for the dynamic of the community.Aside, Thomas (helped by Joren) started a local chapter in Ghent as a few Rubyists living Ghent wanted to gather more often. However for different reasons (mostly time), they can't keep doing a monthly meetup. It could be a good spot if we want to organize something in Ghent.### Rails GirlsOana organized one Rails Girls in May 2015.
We had 28 participants, 12 coaches, 6 sponsors. 
Oana:
> See [the report summarizing the event](http://www.slideshare.net/OanaSipos/rails-girls-2015report)As she wanted to coach more, she was looking for someone to take over. She found Silvana who organized the Rails Girls in February 2016.Silvana: excerpts from her report> The general demographic was young professional women, mostly from outside Belgium, working or studying in Brussels. Few had limited experience coding, however, many of the participants did not have any previous programing experience, but have a keen interest in technology. Reasons for attending the workshop range from having an interest in getting a glimpse into programming, to having a better understanding of the development processes, in order to communicate better with programmers at their workplace.  [...]  the workshop was mostly hands­on; meaning there were no lectures or presentations by the coaches. Although this is an idea that came up during planning talks, it was more the circumstances of the workshop that allowed for more hands­on learning. Specifically, having one coach per two participants made for a better communication between the beginners and coaches.Lastly, unlike previous workshops, participants started with a more visual exercise rather than diving directly into Ruby on Rails. In the first part of the day, using HTML and CSS, the women had to create a landing page, and the coaches explained the distinction between front­end and back­end programming languages. Seeing the result of their work in the browser helped make the distinction clear. In the second part, they created a web application using Ruby on Rails, and linked it to their landing pages.  [...]  We had 22 participants, 13 coaches, 6 sponsors.### RubyCampInspired by Ruby Camps organized in Australia, NZ, and Koehn, I thought it would be nice to enjoy a whole weekend together. With the help of Yannick, I organized the first Ruby Camp the last weekend of August 2015.It gathered 28 persons, we did bbq, games, coding, talks, yoga, run, discuss the association, and so on. We had a super great time. After it, Thomas, one of the participants, was motivated to do another one in Winter. He organized the second one in February 2016.Thomas:> Nevertheless we weren’t that many we had a great time.First evening burgers, video games on big screen.Second day we mostly did some programming and puzzles.The last day we did some more programming and Cecile gave some talks. 
> Me and Boris had the idea to organise it a next time more in the city (youth hostel) were we can be more flexible in the number of rooms we take, maybe in combination with a hackaton to build sth for the organisation.### Ruby FosdemI started to organize a ruby devroom in 2015 with Florian and Tyler. We had a great lineup with contributors of MRI, JRuby, Rubinius, RubyMotion) and the room has been packed the whole day. It was then supported by Ruby Berlin. Tyler and I have organized another one this year. We had 6 speakers that talked about Ruby Internals. The room has been nearly full for some of the talks, but I had the feeling it was less successful than the previous year. Due to several reasons: speakers' cancellation and Fosdem CoC issues. I still do not know if it will worth it to organize it again.### Discussion groupsThere is a ruby_be IRC channel on freenode. Unfortunately, it gathered ppl that were used to IRC. Yannick created a slack team rubyburgers in October 2014, hoping it will help to offer a discussion place more open.  Due to its adoption in the community, it became the obvious place to discuss online. We have now about 110 members and 8 channels. About 70k messages have been exchanged since its creation, it means that in average 130 messages are sent every day. About half of the messages are DMs, it means it supports the communication of groups and person to person in the community.### JobBoardDuring 2015, we clearly noticed a need for a better visibility in the job market. In order to resolve that, we started to list the [Belgian Ruby shops](https://github.com/brug-be/rubyshops), we created a [repo to publish job openings](https://github.com/brug-be/jobboard), we dedicated a discussion channel to share job openings and let ppl share when they're looking for a new job or they.  Thanks to those tools and the community, we can say that we helped 5 persons to find a new job, we share about 45 job opening via our communication channels.
## Balance sheet 2015 and ongoing 2016### 2015
|Object|Expensen|Revenues|Balance||-------|-------|-------|-------|
|**Admin**|­-140.84|0|-­140.84|
|**RubyCamp**|-­2077.06|2237.38|160.32|
|**Rais Girls**|­-1185.78|2400|1214.22|
|**BRUG**|-81|0|-81|
|**Ruby Burgers**|-25|0|-25|
|**Fosdem**|-689.9|2000|1310.1|
|**Membership Fee**|0|650|650|
|**Balance**|0|167.29|167.29|
|**Total**|**­-3509.68**|**5454.67**|**1944.99**|

### 2016

|Object|Expensen|Revenues|Balance||-------|-------|-------|-------|
|**Admin**|­-30.15|0|-­30.15|
|**RubyCamp**|-­674.17|720|45.83|
|**Rais Girls**|­-812.17|600|-212.15|
|**BRUG**|-28.02|0|-28.02|
|**Ruby Burgers**|0|0|0|
|**Membership Fee**|0|75|75|
|**Balance**|0|1969.99|1969.99|
|**Total**|**­-2234.39**|**5364.99**|**3130.6**|## Board 2016 and Project 2016The board has decided to keep the same number of board members, i.e. 5 seats.Members asking reelection:* Christophe Philemotte* JorenMembers leaving: 
* Oana* Yannick* HannesNew members to vote for:* Simon * Tiago* Anthony 
* Boris* Lien* Silvana * Thomas
### Election of the board 2016Vote for the 5 new board members.### Dissolution of the board 2015The current board will be dissolved at the end of April 2016. This time will be used to onboard the new members and to publish the composition of the new board.## Budget 2016Based on 2015 expenses and some observations, below a budget for 2016:
|Object|Expensen|Revenues|Balance||-------|-------|-------|-------|
|**Admin**|­-200|0|-­200|
|**RubyCamp**|-­4000|5400|1400|
|**Rais Girls**|­-2000|2500|500|
|**BRUG**|-162|144|-18|
|**Fosdem**|-750|2000|1250|
|**Ruby Burgers**|0|0|0|
|**Membership Fee**|0|1250|1250|
|**Job**|0|500|500|
|**Balance**|0|1969.99|1969.99|
|**Total**|**­-7112**|**13763.99**|**6651.99**|## Approval of Membership Fee 2016The Board suggests to keep it the same than last year, i.e. 25€, as we do not have yet a clear definition of what we can offer back.## Approval Budget 2016
Cf the budget above.## ClosingThe General Assembly will be closed with some final words.