# Meeting Minutes First 2016 Board Meeting

* 25.04.2016, Bruxelles
* [Agenda](20160425_minutes.md)
* Attendees:
  * Christophe Philemotte
  * Joren de Groof
  * Rorsvort Boris
  * Lien Van Den Steen
  * Silvana Precup

## New Board - Welcome

## Election of roles

The following members have been unanimously voted in their roles:

* Christophe Philemotte - President
* Joren de Groof - Treasurer
* Silvana Precup - Secretary

## Publication of new board composition

* Christophe Philemotte - President
* Joren de Groof - Treasurer
* Silvana Precup - Secretary

## Mandates for new Bank Account

Discussion and agreement on publication of new board composition and mandates for new Bank Account.
Joren responsible together with Boris.

## Our Strategy for this year

Roundtable on goals for the year

### Christophe

* make the organization self-sustainable in the long run by having a system in place
  * pragmatic transfer of knowledge
  * ‘put it all on paper’
  * arrange to have the necessary tools in place 
  * find a way to involve more people, and habits will follow
  * find a structure for the organization to work regardless of the people involved
  * find and follow best practices of other organizations

### Joren

* find a way to make ArrrrCamp self sustainable 
* find a way to approach students and youth in Flanders about Ruby on Rails/coding/tech

### Lien

* post-RG work: set up study groups monthly/biweekly 
* discuss best-practice with Cecile; involve all who want to learn code
* BRUG: work with Tiago

### Boris

* Asbl identity and message
* look at what was achieved by other organizations such as Coder Dojo
* meet with organizers and get intel on best practices
* sponsors and general ways to get fundings

### Silvana

* together with coaches form study groups of 2-­3 participants and one coach to build on things learned during the Rails Girls workshop
* together with Lien, make RG self­-sustainable by making it easy to transfer tasks and responsibilities
* make Ruby BE more about the people


## How to work together

### Internal comms

All Ruby BE communication about the Board and activities to be moved from personal accounts to RubyBE Gmail, including urgent matters. 

### Storage of document and collaboration

Creation of an admin account to store all communication.

### How to share credentials of tools (fb, twitter, etc.)

Twitter and FB credentials to be shared with all.  Boris, Tiago & Christophe as main points of contact      

### Collaboration

* Share phone numbers
* Github issues for discussion
* Trello to keep track of projects roadmaps
* Organize per project: have one board per project
* How to do the next board meeting: online, spread the discussion over one month

## Events

* Ruby Burgers - once a month, last Wednesday,: Boris
* BRUG:
  * BRUG, Brussels and Ghent, ask Tiago to lead and be sure every chapter does it well, Christophe will maybe do one in Axis Parc, near Louvain La Neuve. Tiago & Lien
  * BRUG Ghent: Joren
  * other potential BRUG chapters in Liege, Louvain-la-Neuve
* Ruby Camp - another one at the end of August?
* Rails Girls: Silvana & Lien. Next RG - September
* Mentorship program: Silvana
* New meetup for beginners

## Projects and Organizers

Discussion about other possible events (beginner, study group, etc.) cf above

## Incentives for members:

1. Christophe: developer community in Belgium, gap between junior and senior levels. The latter freelance for large global organizations, or work as employees in local companies. The issue is how to bridge the gap and grow the current community. One solution is to focus on existing actors in informal education, to partner-up and share knowledge. 	
2. New meetup for beginners; other potential BRUG chapters in Liege, Louvain-la-Neuve
3. We need to know who and what: Jobboard, training, Personas

## Branding and promotion

Define target audiences: for the organization as a whole; per event/activity
Then we can work on branding and promotion

## Other issues

* Have in place a volunteer-based network for events and other tasks
* Do-Your-Own-Proxy exercise - rotation of Board roles, regardless of official status. Proxy-President, Proxy-Rails Girls Lead Organizer, so on. 
* The idea is to work agile and transfer knowledge at the same time. 
* Location for events - strategic decision: partnering up with strategic venues - i.e. Coworking places give access to local tech community - jobs/network; 

## To Do. Deadline May 24th 

### Christophe

* Publish new Board
* Fix mandates and add Boris as second card holder
* Review and publish minutes
* Ask Simon for a NL version of Board info
* Pass accounting responsibilities to Joren
* Set admin account to archive all communication 
* List projects and organizers
* Share credentials for Twitter and FB
* Events 
* Pass on the list of members to Joren

### Lien

* Plan study groups 
* Plan next RG with Silvana
* Upcoming BRUG, work with Tiago

### Joren

* Take over accounting from Cristoph
* Contact members for 2016 fee

### Silvana

* Description and suggested organization for post RG study groups 
* Together with Lien find a RG Lead Organizer Proxy to involve for the next RG event
* As Secretary/Board-level/Strategic - draft a ‘pragmatic transfer of knowledge’; work on self-sustainability concept/best practice to be discussed and tested per activity/event. 
* Check-in with all about the status of their tasks "We got a deadline people!"

### Boris

* Describe and look at best practice for Beginner Meetup
* Define Pitch for Ruby BE: who (new members), what (we offer), how(message)
* Coder Dojo research
* Branding
* Responsible for website
