# Board meeting 21/06

Present: Boris, Christophe, Silvana

## 1) Quick update about what's done and what needs discussion

### Beginner meetup

4 courses splitted over one or two month
Silvana will start organizing the content
Christophe will create the ad-hoc repos

### Job survey
run it 2 more weeks
then publish on the site

### Accounting
Waiting joren is back to wrap up

### Local synergies
Silvana contact interace3 for railsgirls potential collaboration

### New website
Merge the new design and replace missing local page with links to external page.


## 2) A whole topic around persona and pitch that Boris wrote

Summarize “What” and “goal” in one sentence.
Toch will use this as a base for the subscription reminder email

## 3) Interactions and board meeting

Didnt find a good way to interact yet. 
Everybody has its reason but we need a solution

Maybe evrybody can say his availabilities (how nuch, frequency)
Find a way to tag tickets as urgent

Suggestion for the board to have a quick monthly call
Be more pro-active on trello

Christophe will send a mail to board members to check on their motivation


## 4) How to involve the community in what we're doing

Christophe we’re not open enough for contribution
Solutions: 

Open trello board
Share it on the website
Make clear github vs trello
Brainstorm list of things people can help with => https://github.com/brug-be/rubybelgium/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22help+wanted%22
Maybe project lead shout in general slack when help is needed via trello or github


