# Minutes - Board Meeting

* When: 17th October 2018, 6.30PM UTC+2
* Where: Be Central, Brussels - Board Room

## Topics

### Ruby Belgium Strategy presentation
> See enclosed proposal from Laszlo
- Laszlo suggested an action plan based on 4 pillars, the global strategy for the 3 next years. Present members and absents shall comment on the document. 

#### Bank Account - Situation & Ideas to bring revenue

#### Quick Accounting Overview
- Accesses: Access to the account but still under Joren's name
- Needed: New statuses. This needs to be done by Stan
- Laszlo is to send us an overview of the account, to see from what we're starting

#### Reimbursements (Last meetups, last Rails Girls)
- Transfer to be done for Laszlo to pay back for Rails Girls
- Thinking about getting more cards, switch to Revolut? 

#### Rails Girls event
- ~24 attendees, 50 were accepted
- Improvements
  - Communication
  - ~Enforce confirmation~ Maybe not, considered to be an anti-pattern. Enforce by auto emails ("5 more days")
  - Centralize in a database all the attendees and coaches
- Send a mail for feedback
- Tiago to send a mail to the coaches, Sandjiv to prepare one for the attendees, Silvana to send it

#### Registered Members
- To be discusses next meeting, see database talk

#### Job Board
- Get started on the HR part

#### Next events
- Ruby Burgers
  - Check with Boris, either next week or the one after
- Code Together
  - November
    - "Tools of the trade": CI, git, heroku, industrializing a process / comparision between 2-3 devs
    - Food: one possibility would be delivery.exki.com, to be seen?

#### Admin person
- Could it be useful for a 1 day a week job?
  - What missions?
  - Code together organization
    - Food
    - Finding a speaker
    - Booking a room
  - Communication around the events - coherence
  - Manage the community
- Community Management / Office Manager
  
#### Next Board Meeting
- Go over the document shared and write your comments. Talk about strategy.
- Laszlo to come with a solution to have multiple cards, see about switching banks
- Tiago, Silvana (eg. Typeform) to bring all the databases they have access to, so we can talk about merging everything and documentate it
  - Stan to bring Boris resrouces
- Next meeting to be set 1st week of November
