# Agenda - Board Meeting

* When: 1st June 2015, 8.30PM UTC+2
* Where: [Slack](https://rubyburgers.slack.com/messages/association/)

## Topics

* Open Board Meeting
* Bank Account
* Membership Fees
* Receipt
* Website and Domain Name
* Support Current Events
* Insurance
* Job Board

## Open Board Meeting

Should we let other people attend the board meeting, and speak (even if they do not have right of vote)?

## Bank Account

For the moment, we can use the Rais Girls bank account. It's a joint personal account owned by Christophe, Yannick,
and Martin. Possible options are: classic bank (ING) but paying, free online bank account at Keytrade, others?

## Membership Fees

We have to decide the membership fee for 2015. It couldn't be more than 100€ according the statute. What about 25€?
For your information, people attending RubyCamp BE 2015 should get a membership. Are you ok?

## Receipt

We should keep track of the issued receipts (they are not invoices per se), for the different fees. Where to store
them? (Do not forget private information)

## Website and Domain Name

Who can setup a quick and simple website (GitHub Page?) to list the different info, projectts, events, activities,
etc? What about getting ruybelgium.be? Where to register?

## Support Current Activities

The current activies that are organized are Rails Girls Brussels, Ruby Burgers, and BRUG:

* ok to support the meetup.com annual fee for the groups Ruby Burgers and BRUG?
* ok to manage sponsoring and expenses for Rails Girls Brussels?
* should we find sponsor dedicated to RailsGirls or more generally for RubyBelgium (and mentioning Rails Girls)?

## Insurance

As an association we are liable of our members (affiliate and full). Option is to take a simple insurance at Ethias
to cover events and activities.

## Job Board

Developers are looking for jobs. Companies are looking for developers. We could be a good information platform.
Christophe tried jobboardmaker.com made by Thibaud Assus: it costs 20% + Stripe fee. He suggested to reduce it
to 15% or a flat fee of 30€. It seems to be a nice solution, but a simple GitHub pages website should also do
the job for free.
